.\"  Copyright (C) 2007-2012 Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation.
.\"  Written by Ryusuke Konishi <konishi.ryusuke@lab.ntt.co.jp>
.\"
.TH LSCP 1 "Apr 2014" "nilfs-utils version 2.2"
.SH NAME
lscp \- list NILFS2 checkpoints
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lscp
[\fIoptions\fP] [\fIdevice\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lscp
is a utility for displaying checkpoints or snapshots of the NILFS2
file system found in \fIdevice\fP.  When \fIdevice\fP is omitted,
\fI/proc/mounts\fP is examined to find a NILFS2 file system.
.PP
This command will fail if the \fIdevice\fP has no active mounts of a
NILFS2 file system.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-all\fR
Do not hide minor checkpoints.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-show\-block\-count\fR
Show number of used blocks instead of appended blocks.  This is the
default mode.
.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-show\-increment\fR
Show number of appended blocks instead of used blocks.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-reverse\fR
Reverse order.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-snapshot\fR
List only snapshots.
.TP
\fB\-i \fIindex\fR, \fB\-\-index\fR=\fIindex\fR
Skip \fIindex\fP checkpoints (or snapshots) at start of input.
.TP
\fB\-n \fIlines\fR, \fB\-\-lines\fR=\fIlines\fR
List only \fIlines\fP input checkpoints (or snapshots).
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help message and exit.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version and exit.
.SH "FIELD DESCRIPTION"
Every line of the \fBlscp\fP output consists of the following seven
fields:
.TP
.B CNO
Checkpoint number.
.TP
.B DATE
Creation date.
.TP
.B TIME
Creation time.
.TP
.B MODE
Mode of the checkpoint; \fBcp\fP for a plain checkpoint, and \fBss\fP
for a snapshot.
.TP
.B FLG
Flags on the checkpoint. At present, character ``i'' is printed in the
field if the checkpoint was created only by garbage collection,
checkpoint mode change, or other change of internal state.  Otherwise
``-'' is printed.
.TP
.B NBLKINC (optional)
Number of blocks appended by the checkpoint.  This field is displayed
instead of BLKCNT field when \fB\-g\fR option is specified.
.TP
.B BLKCNT
Number of blocks used by the checkpoint.
.TP
.B ICNT
Number of inodes included in the entire file system at the time
specified by the checkpoint.
.SH BUGS
NILFS2 in Linux kernel version 2.6.38 and earlier does not support the
block count (BLKCNT) information.
.SH AUTHOR
Koji Sato
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B lscp
is part of the nilfs-utils package and is available from
http://nilfs.sourceforge.net.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nilfs (8),
.BR mkcp (8),
.BR chcp (8),
.BR rmcp (8),
.BR nilfs-tune (8).
