.\"  Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation.
.\"  Written by Ryusuke Konishi <konishi.ryusuke@lab.ntt.co.jp>
.\"
.TH NILFS-RESIZE 8 "Apr 2014" "nilfs-utils version 2.2"
.SH NAME
nilfs-resize \- resize NILFS file system volume size
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nilfs-resize
[\fIoptions\fP] \fIdevice\fP [\fIsize\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBnilfs-resize\fP program will resize NILFS2 file systems.  It
can be used to enlarge or shrink a mounted file system located on
\fIdevice\fP.  This feature is only available on the kernel supporting
on-line resizing.  Resizing for unmounted file systems are not
supported at present.
.PP
The \fIsize\fP parameter specifies the requested new size of the
filesystem.  The \fIsize\fP of the filesystem may never be larger than
the size of the partition.  Optionally, the \fIsize\fP parameter may
be suffixed by one of the following units designators: \'s\',
\'K\', \'M\', \'G\', or \'T\', for 512 byte sectors, kilobytes,
megabytes, gigabytes, or terabytes, respectively.  If \fIsize\fP
parameter is not specified, it will default to the size of the
partition.
.PP
This program does not manipulate the size of partitions.  If you wish
to enlarge a filesystem, you must make sure you can expand the size of
the underlying partition first.  This can be done using \fBfdisk\fP(8)
by deleting the partition and recreating it with a larger size or
using \fBlvextend\fP(8), if you are using the logical volume manager
\fBlvm\fP(8)
.PP
If you wish to shrink a nilfs2 partition, first use
\fBnilfs-resize\fP to shrink the size of filesystem.  Then you may use
\fBfdisk\fP(8) to shrink the size of the partition.  When shrinking
the size of the partition, make sure you do not make it smaller than
the new size of the nilfs2 filesystem.
.PP
This command is valid only for mounted NILFS2 file systems, and
will fail if the \fIdevice\fP has no active mounts.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-y\fR, \fB\-\-yes\fR, \fB\-\-assume\-yes\fR
Assume Yes to all queries and do not prompt.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help message and exit.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Verbose mode.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version and exit.
.SH AUTHOR
Ryusuke Konishi <konishi.ryusuke@lab.ntt.co.jp>
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B nilfs-resize
is part of the nilfs-utils package and is available from
http://nilfs.sourceforge.net.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nilfs (8),
.BR nilfs-tune (8),
.BR fdisk (8),
.BR lvextend (8),
.BR lvm (8).
