.\"  Copyright (C) 2005-2012 Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation.
.\"  Written by Ryusuke Konishi <konishi.ryusuke@lab.ntt.co.jp>
.\"
.TH NILFS 8 "Apr 2014" "nilfs-utils version 2.2"
.SH NAME
NILFS \- the new implementation of a log-structured file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
Overview of the NILFS file system and the related tools.
.SH DESCRIPTION
NILFS is a log-structured file system developed for Linux.  NILFS
provides versioning capability of an entire file system and continuous
snapshotting that allows users to restore files mistakenly overwritten
or destroyed a while ago.
.PP
The current major version of NILFS is version 2, which is referred to
as NILFS2.  NILFS2 is equipped with an online garbage collector (also
called cleaner) that reclaims disk space in the background with
keeping multiple snapshots.
.PP
When data is written or any change is made to a NILFS2 file system, it
automatically creates a checkpoint.  A checkpoint represents a
consistent state of the NILFS2 file system of a certain instant.  It
becomes mountable after being changed into a snapshot.  A snapshot is
the checkpoint marked not to be deleted by the cleaner.  NILFS2
creates a number of checkpoints at regular intervals (unless there is
no change) or with synchronous writings.  There is no practical limit
on the number of checkpoints and snapshots.
.PP
The following tools are available to manage the checkpoint and the
snapshot:
.TP 12
\fBlscp\fP
lists checkpoints or snapshots
.TP
\fBmkcp\fP
makes a checkpoint or a snapshot
.TP
\fBchcp\fP
changes an existing checkpoint to a snapshot or vice versa
.TP
\fBrmcp\fP
invalidates specified checkpoint(s)
.PP
These tools give the versioning capability to NILFS2; a user can
select significant versions among continuously created checkpoints and
can change them to snapshots to be preserved for long periods.
.PP
Every checkpoint except for the snapshot will become unprotected from
the cleaner after a given period of time.  This period is controlled
by the \fBprotection_period\fP parameter defined in the
\fB/etc/nilfs_cleanerd.conf\fP(5) file.
.SH MOUNT OPTIONS
Refer to the
.BR mount.nilfs2 (8).
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B mkfs \-t nilfs2 \fP/dev/sdb1
creates a NILFS2 file system on a block device `/dev/sdb1'.
.TP
.B mount \-t nilfs2 \fP/dev/sdb1 /nilfs
mounts the NILFS2 file system on a mount point `/nilfs' like an
ordinary POSIX file system.  This will invoke a cleaner process
\fBnilfs_cleanerd\fP(8) through an external mount program
(i.e. \fBmount.nilfs2\fP(8)).
.TP
.B lscp
lists checkpoints created in the file system as follows:
.PP
        CNO        DATE     TIME  MODE  FLG      BLKCNT       ICNT
          1  2014-01-18 20:49:54   cp    -            4          2
          2  2014-01-18 20:51:45   cp    -         3990         11
          3  2014-01-18 20:51:45   cp    -         6058          3
          4  2014-01-18 20:51:49   cp    -         4807          6
          5  2014-01-18 20:51:49   cp    -          262          3
        ...
.TP
.B chcp ss \fP2
changes the checkpoint whose \fIcheckpoint-number\fP is two to a snapshot.
Then the checkpoint list will become as follows:
.PP
        CNO        DATE     TIME  MODE  FLG      BLKCNT       ICNT
          1  2014-01-18 20:49:54   cp    -            4          2
          2  2014-01-18 20:51:45   ss    -         3990         11
          3  2014-01-18 20:51:45   cp    -         6058          3
          4  2014-01-18 20:51:49   cp    -         4807          6
          5  2014-01-18 20:51:49   cp    -          262          3
        ...
.TP
.B mount \-t nilfs2 \-r \-o cp=2 \fP/dev/sdb1 /snapshot
mounts the snapshot on another directory `/snapshot' as a read-only
file system.  Here the snapshot mount requires at least two options, a
read-only option (\fB\-r\fP or \fB\-o ro\fP) and the \fBcp\fP option
(\fB\-o cp=\fP\fIcheckpoint-number\fP).  Note that a read/write mount and
one or more snapshots are mountable independently, so the online
backup is possible through the snapshot mounts.
.PP
        # mount \-t nilfs2
        /dev/sdb1 on /nilfs type nilfs2 (rw,gcpid=13296)
        /dev/sdb1 on /snapshot type nilfs2 (ro,cp=2)
.TP
.B umount \fP/nilfs
unmounts the NILFS2 file system mounted on `/nilfs' and will shutdown
the \fBnilfs_cleanerd\fP(8) through an external umount program
(\fBumount.nilfs2\fP(8)) for the read/write mount.
.SH AUTHORS
.B NILFS2
was developed by NILFS development team.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mkfs.nilfs2 (8),
.BR mount.nilfs2 (8),
.BR umount.nilfs2 (8),
.BR nilfs_cleanerd (8),
.BR nilfs_cleanerd.conf (5),
.BR nilfs-tune (8),
.BR nilfs-clean (8),
.BR nilfs-resize (8),
.BR lscp (1),
.BR mkcp (8),
.BR chcp (8),
.BR rmcp (8),
.BR lssu (1),
.BR dumpseg (8)
.sp
http://nilfs.sourceforge.net/
