.\"  Copyright (C) 2007-2012 Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation.
.\"  Written by Ryusuke Konishi <konishi.ryusuke@lab.ntt.co.jp>
.\"
.TH NILFS_CLEANERD 8 "Apr 2014" "nilfs-utils version 2.2"
.SH NAME
nilfs_cleanerd \- NILFS2 garbage collector
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nilfs_cleanerd
[\fB\-hV\fP]
.sp
.B nilfs_cleanerd
[\fIoptions\fP] \fIdevice\fP [\fIdirectory\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nilfs_cleanerd
is a system daemon which reclaims disk space of a NILFS2 file system
found in \fIdevice\fP.
.PP
The optional \fIdirectory\fP argument specifies the mount point where
the daemon operates.  It must be an r/w-mount.
.PP
This program can be invoked either automatically by
\fBmount.nilfs2\fP(8) or manually by an administrator.  However, 
users are recommended to invoke \fBnilfs_cleanerd\fP through
\fBmount.nilfs2\fP(8) or \fBmount\fP(8) and shutdown it through
\fBumount.nilfs2\fP(8) or \fBumount\fP(8) in order to avoid state
inconsistencies among administration tools.
.PP
\fBnilfs_cleanerd\fP displays its process ID (pid) to standard
output when it started.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version and exit.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help message and exit.
.TP
\fB\-c \fIfile\fR, \fB\-\-conf\fR=\fIfile\fR
Specify configuration file.
.TP
\fB\-p \fIinterval\fR, \fB\-\-protection-period\fR=\fIinterval\fR
Override protection period with the specified number of seconds.
.SH SIGNALS
.B nilfs_cleanerd
reacts to a set of signals.  You may send a signal to
\fBnilfs_cleanerd\fP using the \fIPID\fP shown by the mount command
(or in \fI/etc/mtab\fP):
.RS
.TP 0
.B # mount \-t nilfs2
.br
/dev/sdb1 on /nilfs type nilfs2 (rw,gcpid=\fIPID\fP)
.br
.B # kill \-\fISIGNAL\fP \fIPID\fP
.RE
.PP
.TP
.B SIGHUP
This lets \fBnilfs_cleanerd\fP perform a re-initialization.  The
configuration file (default is \fI/etc/nilfs_cleanerd.conf\fP) will be
reread.
.TP
.B SIGTERM
The \fBnilfs_cleanerd\fP will exit cleanly.
.TP
.B SIGUSR1, SIGUSR2
Reserved for future use.  These let \fBnilfs_cleanerd\fP die at
present.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/nilfs_cleanerd.conf
Configuration file for \fBnilfs_cleanerd\fP.
See \fBnilfs_cleanerd.conf\fP(5) for details.
.SH AUTHOR
Koji Sato
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B nilfs_cleanerd
is part of the nilfs-utils package and available from
http://nilfs.sourceforge.net.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nilfs (8),
.BR mount.nilfs2 (8),
.BR umount.nilfs2 (8),
.BR nilfs_cleanerd.conf (5).
