.\"  Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation.
.\"  Written by Ryusuke Konishi <konishi.ryusuke@lab.ntt.co.jp>
.\"
.TH NILFS-CLEAN 8 "Apr 2014" "nilfs-utils version 2.2"
.SH NAME
nilfs-clean \- run garbage collector on NILFS file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nilfs-clean
[\fIoptions\fP] [\fIdevice\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBnilfs-clean\fP program communicates with
\fBnilfs_cleanerd\fP(8) program and controls execution of garbage
collection (GC) on NILFS2 file systems.  It can be used to manually
run garbage collection of a file system mounted on \fIdevice\fP to
increase the free space.
.PP
If a GC command is specified by one of the following options
(i.e. \'\-c\',\'\-s\',\'\-r\', and \'\-l\' options), the command is
sent to and performed on the \fBnilfs_cleanerd\fP(8) program.  If no
commands are specified, \fBnilfs-clean\fP just triggers a one-pass
cleaning.
.PP
When \fIdevice\fP is omitted, \fBnilfs-clean\fP selects an active
NILFS2 file system in the system.
.PP
This command is valid only for mounted NILFS2 file systems, and
will fail if the \fIdevice\fP has no active mounts.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-break\fR, \fB\-\-stop\fR
Stop garbage collection.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-reload\fR[=\fIconffile\fR]
Request reloading config file to cleaner process.  If an optional
configuration file is given, the file is read by
\fBnilfs_cleanerd\fP(8) program and cleaner configuration is reset to
the information.  If no argument is given, a configuration file
selected by \fBnilfs_cleanerd\fP(8) will be reloaded.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-status\fR
Display cleaner status.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help message and exit.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-min\-reclaimable\-blocks=\fICOUNT[%]\fR
Specify the minimum number of reclaimable blocks in a segment before
it can be cleaned. If the argument is followed by a percent sign, it
represents the ratio of blocks in a segment. This argument will only have
an effect if the use_set_suinfo flag is set in the configuration file.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-protection-period=\fIinterval\fR
Set protection period for a cleaner run.  The \fIinterval\fR parameter
is an integer value and specifies the minimum time that deleted or
overrode data will be preserved in the file system.  Smaller values will
increase free space made by garbage collection.  Optionally, the
\fIinterval\fP parameter may be suffixed by one of the following
units designators: \'s\', \'m\', \'h\', \'d\',\'w\',\'M\', or \'Y\',
for seconds, minutes, hours, days, weeks, months, or years,
respectively.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quit\fR
Shutdown cleaner daemon.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-resume\fR
Resume garbage collection.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-suspend\fR
Suspend garbage collection.  Note that if users manually suspend
garbage collection with this option, it will not restart automatically
until user resumes the garbage collection.
.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-speed=\fICOUNT[/SECONDS]\fR
Set garbage collection speed for a cleaner run.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Verbose mode.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version and exit.
.SH AUTHOR
Ryusuke Konishi <konishi.ryusuke@lab.ntt.co.jp>
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B nilfs-clean
is part of the nilfs-utils package and is available from
http://nilfs.sourceforge.net.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nilfs (8),
.BR nilfs_cleanerd (8).
