.\"  Copyright (C) 2007-2012 Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation.
.\"  Written by Ryusuke Konishi <konishi.ryusuke@lab.ntt.co.jp>
.\"
.TH NILFS_CLEANERD.CONF 5 "Apr 2014" "nilfs-utils version 2.2"
.SH NAME
nilfs_cleanerd.conf \- nilfs_cleanerd(8) configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.I nilfs_cleanerd.conf
file is the configuration file for the \fBnilfs_cleanerd\fP(8) which
reclaims disk space of the NILFS2 filesystem.  This file specifies the
parameters related to garbage collection (GC) and behaviour of the
daemon program.
.PP
The file contains keyword argument pairs or keyword-only directives,
one per line.  Lines starting with '#' are interpreted as comments.
The comment lines and empty lines are ignored.
.SH PARAMETERS
The possible keywords and their meanings are as follows (keywords and
arguments are both case-sensitive):
.TP
.B protection_period
Specify the period during which each checkpoint is protected from the
garbage collector (in seconds).  NILFS2 GC never deletes checkpoints
and their blocks whose duration time is less than the value.  The
default value is 3600, meaning one hour.
.TP
.B min_clean_segments
Specify the minimum number of clean segments. A value of 0 means
continuous cleaning. A value greater than 0 means pause cleaning until
less than min_clean_segments are available.
.TP
.B max_clean_segments
Specify the maximum number of clean segments. If min_clean_segments is
0, this value is ignored. If more than max_clean_segments are available
cleaning is paused until less than min_clean_segments are available.
.PP
\fBmin_clean_segments\fP and \fBmax_clean_segments\fP may be followed
by a percent sign or the following multiplicative suffixes: kB 1000,
K 1024, MB 1000*1000, M 1024*1024, GB 1000*1000*1000, G
1024*1024*1024, and so on for T, P, E.  If the argument is followed by
a percent sign, it represents a disk capacity ratio.
.PP
The default values of \fBmin_clean_segments\fP and
\fBmax_clean_segments\fP are 10 percent and 20 percent respectively.
.TP
.B clean_check_interval
Specify the interval to wait between checks of min_clean_segments.
If min_clean_segments is 0, this value is ignored.
The default value is 10.
.TP
.B selection_policy
Specify the GC policy. At present, only the `\fBtimestamp\fP' policy,
which reclaims segments in order from oldest to newest, is support.
.TP
.B nsegments_per_clean
Specify the number of segments reclaimed by a single cleaning step.
The default value is 2.
.TP
.B mc_nsegments_per_clean
Specify the number of segments reclaimed by a single cleaning step
if clean segments < min_clean_segments.
The default value is 4.
.TP
.B cleaning_interval
Specify the cleaning interval in seconds.  The default value is 5.
.TP
.B mc_cleaning_interval
Specify the cleaning interval in seconds
if clean segments < min_clean_segments.  The default value is 1.
.TP
.B retry_interval
Specify retry interval in seconds.  This value provides the retry
interval of GC in case of resource shortages.  The default value is
60.
.TP
.B use_mmap
Specify whether to use \fBmmap\fP(2) for reading segments.  At
present, this option is enabled if supported regardless of this
directive.
.TP
.B use_set_suinfo
Specify whether to use the set_suinfo ioctl if it is supported. This is
necessary for the \fBmin_reclaimable_blocks\fP feature. By disabling this
switch \fBmin_reclaimable_blocks\fP is also disabled.
.TP
.B min_reclaimable_blocks
Specify the minimum number of reclaimable blocks in a segment before
it can be cleaned.
.TP
.B mc_min_reclaimable_blocks
Specify the minimum number of reclaimable blocks in a segment before
it can be cleaned. if clean segments < min_clean_segments.
.PP
\fBmin_reclaimable_blocks\fP and \fBmc_min_reclaimable_blocks\fP may
be followed by a percent sign or the following multiplicative suffixes:
kB 1000, K 1024, MB 1000*1000, M 1024*1024, GB 1000*1000*1000, G
1024*1024*1024, and so on for T, P, E.  If the argument is followed by
a percent sign, it represents the ratio of blocks in a segment.
.PP
The default values of \fBmin_reclaimable_blocks\fP and
\fBmc_min_reclaimable_blocks\fP are 10 percent and 1 percent respectively.
.TP
.B log_priority
Gives the verbosity level that is used when logging messages from
\fBnilfs_cleanerd\fP(8).  The possible values are: \fBemerg\fP,
\fBalert\fP, \fBcrit\fP, \fBerr\fP, \fBwarning\fP, \fBnotice\fP,
\fBinfo\fP, and \fBdebug\fP.  The default is \fBinfo\fP.
.PP
Since nilfs-utils 2.1, subsecond value can be specified for time
interval parameters in decimal fraction format.  This applies to
\fBprotection_period\fP, \fBclean_check_interval\fP,
\fBcleaning_interval\fP, \fBmc_cleaning_interval\fP, and
\fBretry_interval\fP.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/nilfs_cleanerd.conf
Configuration file for \fBnilfs_cleanerd\fP(8).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nilfs_cleanerd (8).
