.\"  Copyright (C) 2007-2012 Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation.
.\"  Written by Ryusuke Konishi <konishi.ryusuke@lab.ntt.co.jp>
.\"
.TH RMCP 8 "Apr 2014" "nilfs-utils version 2.2"
.SH NAME
rmcp \- remove NILFS2 checkpoints
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rmcp
[\fIoptions\fP] [\fIdevice\fP] \fIcheckpoint-range\fP ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rmcp
is a utility for removing checkpoints from the NILFS2 file system
found in \fIdevice\fP.  The checkpoints which user wants to remove are
specified with one or more \fIcheckpoint-ranges\fP.  When \fIdevice\fP
is omitted, rmcp tries to find a NILFS2 file system from
\fI/proc/mounts\fP.
.PP
The \fIcheckpoint-range\fP must be provided with one or two integers
in one of the following way:
.TP
.BR cno
single checkpoint number
.TP
.BR start..end
every checkpoint number between \fBstart\fP and \fBend\fP
.TP
.BR ..end
every checkpoint number equal or younger than \fBend\fP
.TP
.BR start..
every checkpoint number equal or greater than \fBstart\fP
.PP
This command is valid only for mounted NILFS2 file systems, and
will fail if the \fIdevice\fP has no active mounts.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
Ignore snapshots or nonexistent checkpoints.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-interactive\fR
Prompt before any removal.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help message and exit.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version and exit.
.SH AUTHOR
Koji Sato, Ryusuke Konishi <konishi.ryusuke@lab.ntt.co.jp>.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B rmcp
is part of the nilfs-utils package and is available from
http://nilfs.sourceforge.net.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nilfs (8),
.BR lscp (1),
.BR mkcp (8),
.BR chcp (8),
.BR nilfs-tune (8).
