.\"  Copyright (C) 2007-2012 Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation.
.\"  Written by Ryusuke Konishi <konishi.ryusuke@lab.ntt.co.jp>
.\"
.TH UMOUNT.NILFS2 8 "Apr 2014" "nilfs-utils version 2.2"
.SH NAME
umount.nilfs2 \- unmount NILFS2 file systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B umount
[\fB\-t nilfs2\fP] [\fB\-dfilnrv\fP] \fIdevice\fP | \fIdir\fP [...]
.sp
.B umount.nilfs2
[\fB\-nrv\fP] \fIdir\fP [...]
.sp
.B umount.nilfs2
[\fB\-V\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B umount.nilfs2
detaches the NILFS2 file system(s) mentioned from the file hierarchy.
This is the umount helper for NILFS2 to shutdown the garbage collector
\fBnilfs_cleanerd\fP(8) before detaching the file system.  Usually it
should be invoked through \fBumount\fP(8).
.SH OPTIONS
See \fBumount\fP(8) for the full set of options.  Commonly used options
with NILFS2 are as follows:
.TP
.B \-V
Print version and exit.
.TP
.B \-i
Don't call \fBumount.nilfs2\fP.  Valid for \fBumount\fP(8).
.TP
.B \-n
Unmount without writing in \fI/etc/mtab\fP.  This option must be used
carefully because \fBmount.nilfs2\fP and \fBumount.nilfs2\fP use the
table to store the process ID of \fBnilfs_cleanerd\fP(8).
.TP
.B \-r
In case unmounting fails, try to remount read-only.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose mode.
.SH THE LOOP DEVICE
.B umount.nilfs2
will free the loop device (if any) associated with the mount, in case
it finds the option `loop=...' in \fI/etc/mtab\fP.  The \-d option,
which also allows \fBumount\fP(8) to free the loop device without the
`loop=...' option, is not supported.
.SH AUTHOR
.B umount.nilfs2
is written by Ryusuke Konishi <konishi.ryusuke@lab.ntt.co.jp> for NILFS2,
based on the umount program included in the util-linux package.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B umount.nilfs2
is part of the nilfs-utils package and is available from
http://nilfs.sourceforge.net.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nilfs (8),
.BR umount (8),
.BR mount.nilfs2 (8),
.BR nilfs_cleanerd (8).
